[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>>GREGG BRADEN: Hello.
My name's Gregg Braden, and
I'd like to welcome you to this
all-new presentation
of "The Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."
In the last episode, we saw
how the course of world events
follows natural cycles that
can be known and calculated
is what we called fractal time.
Well, in this episode, we'll
apply these very principles
on a personal level
as we discover
the cyclic patterns
of our relationships
and the choice points for
the most potent opportunities
of positive change in our lives.
I'd like to use a personal
example from my own life
to demonstrate how
these cycles work
and how we can calculate
those repeat cycles.
So I'm going to begin with
an early time in my life.
My father left our family
when I was 11 years old.
But it wasn't until 30 years
after that event that I fully
understood the impact
that losing my father
had on my life, because
while I still knew in my mind
that I had a family--
I had a mom and my
younger brother--
I felt in my heart
something very different.
My heart and my emotions said
that I had lost my family,
that I had been betrayed by
what happened in my father
leaving the family.
Well, that feeling
of loss and betrayal
planted the seed for a pattern.
It was a pattern of sabotage
for the relationships
that I loved and held
most dear in my life,
and it happened for decades.
It was this seed of
loss and betrayal
that will continue throughout
much of my adult life-- that
is, until I recognized
that pattern
and had the wisdom to change it.
While using the
principles of fractal time
from the last episode, we can
build a time code calculator
to find out exactly
when we can expect
the conditions of deep
emotional experience, like loss
and betrayal-- or even
positive experiences--
to repeat in our lives again.
So what I'd like to
do in this episode
is I'd like to walk you through
the actual calculations, step
by step, so that you can
do these for yourself,
so you can calculate these
cycles in your own life.
Or, if you prefer, you can use
the handy time code calculator
that I've created that's
available on my website
for absolutely no charge.
You don't have to sign up.
There are no strings attached.
I just wanted to make it very
easy to use this algorithm.
So if you go to the website
www.GreggBraden.com--
that's Gregg with two G's--
and you use mode number 3 as
it's described on the website,
you can plug in the
dates that we're
about to describe and have,
automated for you, the longer
system that we're about to
do right now, step by step.
So I'm going to invite
you to begin this process
by identifying an
age in your life
for a seed event
that is emotionally
significant in your life.
Now, it can be a positive event.
It can be a frightening event.
It can be a sad event
of loss or betrayal--
and I'm going to use my
father leaving my family,
as I said, for the example,
just to demonstrate
what's happening here.
So on a piece of paper,
in your mind's eye--
the first variable that
we're going to create
is a variable called
the Seed Event Age,
or SEA, and then a little 1 just
to the right and below-- sub 1.
So SEA sub 1.
So in my example, age
11 is the seed age
that we're going to begin with.
Step number 2-- we're using
the mathematics of nature
that we talked about in
the previous episode.
In this case, I'm going to
use the phi ratio of your age.
Now, in other programs, we've
talked about the phi ratio.
It's a mystical, magical number.
It's the number that governs
the proportions of our body,
the ratio of our
shoulders to our elbow
and our elbow to our wrist,
the ratio of the tip of one
finger to the first joint, and
then the ratio of that distance
to the next joint and
to the next joint,
the ratio of where our eyes
are located on our face,
and the distance
between our nose
and our lip in proportion
to the rest of our head.
We see this unfolding
beautifully as the spirals
that we see, and the
nautilus shells, for example,
are the classic example.
So this mystical phi
ratio applies to so much
of the natural world.
I'm not surprised that it would
apply, also, to cycles of time.
So in the last
episode, we used this
to help us calculate, in an
algorithm that you did not see,
the cycles from one
world event to the next
within the overall
cycle of time--
5,125 years.
In this algorithm, we
don't need that big cycle.
We're talking about what
has happened in your life
from one point to
the next to the next?
So in this example,
that number is 0.618.
This is the phi ratio--
mathematic representation
of the phi ratio.
And you would multiply that
times your seed event age.
My seed event age
was 11 years of age,
so when we multiply 0.618 times
11, we get the number 6.798.
So my variable of the
interval I sub phi,
as you're seeing on
the screen, is 6.798.
Third step-- very simple.
We add this phi ratio interval--
6.798-- to the seed event age at
the time of the emotional event
to determine when you can expect
the conditions for that seed
event to repeat
again in your life.
And once again, doesn't
mean the event will occur.
It means that's when
we can reasonably
expect the conditions that
precipitate the event to occur.
And when you do this,
you will get an age.
Now, if that age is
not your current age,
that age will be an
age in your past,
and then you can look at
the events of your life
during the time that
you were that age,
and you can see how those
events apply to the age.
If you want to bring
this cycle current,
the age that you have
just calculated now
becomes the new input.
It becomes the new seed
for the calculation.
And we'll do this together.
I'm just walking you
through where this is going.
It will become the
new seed, and we'll
go through the
calculation again.
So in my example, the
first calculation results
in an age of 6.798 plus
the age of 11, and that
gives me the age of 17.798.
Now, interestingly,
this is precisely
the age when I lost two
very powerfully significant
relationships in my life.
One was the very first
romance that I ever had--
and you know, when you're young,
those romances are important.
I embarked upon a path
when I lost my family.
I tried, as a child, to
recreate family on my own
without having the greater
family of my parents.
So I began creating
romantic relationships,
I began creating family of
my own at the age of 11.
And my relationships were
typically long-lasting.
So the first romance I had at
11, I lost at the age of 17.
And for me, at that time, that
was a long period of time.
That was very difficult. And
I also lost a dear friend
at the same time.
I didn't lose him in life.
I lost him as a friend.
As different as these
relationships were from one
another-- a friendship
and a romance--
the common denominator
to both, as I
was able to later recognize--
that in both instances,
it was loss--
because I lost them both--
but I lost them
both to betrayal.
Both of them betrayed my trust.
Both of them betrayed
my confidence.
And it was the betrayal
that was planted as the seed
that I felt when my father
left, that sense of loss
and betrayal.
And I'm giving you this as an
example of how it played out
in my life.
So what I've just
shared with you--
this was the first repeat
of the fractal cycle
after the original seed
event at the age of 11.
When I plug this date
back into the calculator,
the next age that comes up as
a cycle was the age of 24.596.
Well, interestingly,
this is precisely
the age when, again, loss and
betrayal played a powerful role
in my life.
In this instance, it was an
academic betrayal, as well as
the loss of a
significant relationship.
The academic betrayal was
completely unexpected.
I was studying as an
undergraduate in a geology
program, had a
full-credit 19 credits,
and I was also
working three jobs
to pay for the out-of-state
tuition that was
allowing me to take this major.
And while I was doing so,
my GPA dropped briefly
below the level that was
expected at the time,
and the university felt that
I was not a good candidate
to continue in a
geology program.
Now, where this gets
really interesting
is I end up leaving
the university
and working as a geologist
during the first energy
crisis of the 1970s
and using my job
to have academic credits
to complete my degree.
So I was actually
paid for working
as a geologist at that time.
I was working as a
computer geologist--
subsurface mapping during the
energy crisis of the '70s.
And the work that
I was doing counted
towards college credits, and I
finished my degree in that way.
But the university
that I had trusted,
that I'd put so much trust
and faith into, simply
looked at one parameter
and they said,
this is what's
happening in your life.
You're not a good candidate.
And I interpreted that
as a tremendous betrayal
of an institution that
I had a lot of faith
in, that I trusted, and that
I'd put a lot of time and energy
into.
Not surprisingly, once again, I
lost an intimate relationship--
a romance-- at the same time.
Once again, both as loss--
I was losing both-- and
once again as betrayal.
The next fractal cycle
that played out in my life
as loss and betrayal was at
the age of 38 years 0.192--
38.192 years.
And this was a really
interesting time for me,
because it was the
loss of both a business
and a financial betrayal,
as well as the loss
of a significant relationship.
And I actually talked about
this in a previous episode
of this series.
I mentioned that three
people came into my life
all at one time.
We're talking about the
mirrors of relationship.
One of those people had
access to my finances.
The other one was
a business partner,
and then the third
was a friendship.
So it was these relationships--
the person that had access to
my finances took those finances,
and I had no way to continue
my business and life.
And that was what forced me
to stop and look and say, wow,
what's going on?
What is the pattern
that's playing here?
And that led me to the
understanding of the mirror
that we talked about--
the mirror of judgment,
mirror number 2--
in the earlier episode.
But the business relationship
was also about betrayal.
Here was a man that I had
trusted with my livelihood.
He had toured me, for six
weeks, all up and down the West
Coast of the United States,
from Washington state
all the way down to
Southern California.
And I'd done really good work.
I mean, I'd given it everything,
and I was doing presentations.
I was doing interviews.
I was doing keynotes.
I was doing weekend workshops--
for six weeks.
And at the end of the six
weeks, this is when he said,
we have the money to
cover the expenses.
We'd broken even, but
there's nothing left.
And I actually went
back to my home
with less money after the six
weeks than I had when I began.
No money to pay my bills, my
mortgage, insurance, nothing.
It was at this time that
the person that I trusted
in my personal life-- my
intimate relationship--
went and took whatever money
was there out of the bank.
So these give you some
details, and maybe
by sharing my experience,
you can see parallels.
I'm not saying exactly the
same thing has happened
in your life, but maybe you
can see parallels in your life
and begin to apply
how these things work.
The pattern was the same.
It was playing out again--
the pattern of
loss and betrayal.
The next time this pattern
showed up in my life
was the last time--
and that's the really good
news of being able to recognize
these patterns.
I was 44.99 years old when this
pattern repeated in my life.
So from the time that my
father left at the age of 11
until the age of 44, those,
essentially, three decades
is where the pattern repeated
again and again until I
had the wisdom to recognize it.
At the age of 44.99
years, there was again
a loss and a betrayal.
It was a business
betrayal, followed
by the healing of a friendship
and a healing of that business
relationship, and that is
what changed the pattern.
The loss occurred, but
I had changed the way
that I perceived the loss.
In the past, I had
simply cut the ties
with those relationships
and moved on,
and this time I did
something different.
This time, I went back, and
I talked to these people.
And I said, look,
we have a history.
We're friends.
We've been through
this together.
What's happening?
And it was the ability to
consciously communicate
in a way without
judgment-- and there's
a whole story, a whole
workshop about how
I arrived at that place.
Has to do with the
mirrors of relationship.
But it was my
ability to reconcile
what had happened
without the judgment that
freed me from the cycle.
Now, I just want to
talk to you a little bit
about how this works,
because it's fascinating.
I mentioned that the patterns
repeat again and again
until something
changes the patterns.
One of the things that allows
those patterns to repeat--
and I'm going to go
back to mirrors--
one of the things that allows
those mirrors to show up again
and again and again in our
lives-- the mirror of judgment,
for example--
it is the judgment
itself, the judgment
when we judge our experiences--
that judgment is like a magnet.
It is an energetic
magnet that promises
that the same experience will
come to you again and again
and again until you
demagnetize the experience,
until you release that judgment.
Once you do-- and
this is so powerful--
once you release the
judgment of one experience
and one relationship in
one place in your life,
there is what is called
the cascade effect.
The cascade effect is you will
see the ripples of that healing
permeate all the other
relationships in your life that
are based on that
same principle.
So the judgment in a
business relationship,
for example, once it's
healed, or the judgment
in an intimate relationship
with a partner or a spouse
or with a sibling--
once that's healed, that healing
ripples throughout your work,
throughout your friendships,
throughout your business
relationships, throughout
every relationship
you have without going
to each relationship
individually and saying,
OK, this one's healed.
This one's healed.
This is the value of
understanding these patterns
in our lives.
So at the age of
44.99 years, I healed
the judgment of
loss and betrayal
and what it had
meant in my life.
And the moment that I did
that, that pattern shifted.
I had created a seed
for a new cycle,
and the seed is what sets into
motion a pattern of energy that
will repeat on a rhythmic
basis until something
changes the pattern.
Or maybe you don't want
to change the pattern.
If you have changed the
pattern in a healthy way
to abundance and
success and trust,
then there's every reason to
believe that that pattern will
continue in your life again and
again and again until something
changes, and if you don't
want to change that pattern,
it doesn't have to change.
I want to give you some
examples of really good things
that can happen from
these kinds of changes
as well, because the
fractal cycles work
for good and beautiful
and powerful and positive
changes, as well as the deeply
significant emotional changes
of loss and betrayal.
After my father left our family,
my mother, my younger brother,
and I-- he's four
years younger--
we were left to be
a family on our own.
It was completely unexpected--
at least to my mother.
And I'll just tell you,
as I mentioned earlier,
it was an abusive, alcoholic,
very dysfunctional family.
So for me, even though it
was about loss and betrayal,
I was not that
unhappy when my father
left, because we had relief
in the family on the one hand.
And on the other hand,
things changed for me.
And this was back in the 1960s.
We had no money.
My mother had been a
homemaker and a parent.
She had not been
in the workplace.
And she found herself going
back into the workplace
and found how difficult
it was to make
enough money to cover the
expenses for a household
and two young boys.
And I went to work at an early
age to help contribute to that.
Now, what I'm
going to say next--
I'm not necessarily
bragging about it,
and I'm not recommending
that you do it.
I lied about my age, and I
went to work at an early age.
I was 16, 17 years old.
When I went to work, I
began working in factories,
because the money was really
good in the factories.
So I had my first corporate
paycheck at the age of 16,
and I have to tell you, I
remember it to this day,
in my 60s.
I remember it as if
it was yesterday.
I was standing in line in front
of an old-fashioned time clock.
We used to punch in and
punch out your time card.
And I was with a
row of all men that
were working in a copper mill.
It was a copper factory
in northern Missouri.
Very difficult conditions, our
shift-- we were union shift.
It was from 4:00 o'clock in
the afternoon until midnight,
and if we worked overtime,
it was until 4:00 AM
in the morning-- so 12:00
to 12:00, or 4:00 to 4:00--
12-hour shifts.
I remember the very first time--
the very first time--
that our supervisor handed
me a physical paycheck.
And he looked at me, and
what he said to me-- he said,
this is a man's wage
for a man's work.
A man's wage for a man's work.
And it gave me the freedom
to contribute to my family,
and it set into motion
a powerful seed for me.
And that seed has continued
with me throughout my life.
It was the seed of
abundance and success,
because I understood
that by my work,
something good could
come from that.
I'm going to share
something else with you--
and this is very personal.
At the age of 11, when
the family broke up,
my mom gave me a book.
And she said, I think
this book will help you
through a difficult time.
Many of you, I know,
know this book.
It was a book that was
called "The Prophet,"
and it was written by a
man called Kahlil Gibran.
Very, very powerful book.
Each chapter was just
a couple of paragraphs,
or maybe a couple of pages,
but they spoke volumes to me.
And I remember there
was a chapter on work,
and Kahlil Gibran--
he ended that chapter
by simply stating,
"Work is love made visible."
That meant something to me, and
that became my anchor in life.
And every job that
I took, whether I
was loading box cars with
cat litter in 50-pound bags
or working in a copper mill
or working in a fabric mill
or working in a restaurant-- no
matter what it was, for me, it
wasn't about the work.
It was about my
love made visible--
how good of a job could I do
no matter what I was doing?
And that thinking--
that thinking
is part of what this
seed was all about.
It's why that paycheck
at 16 was so important.
So I just want to share
with you, at 16 years old,
I planted the seed for
abundance and success,
and that seed continued.
At the age of 25.88 years, I
had my first corporate position.
I was hired to work in the
corporations as a geologist--
and I've shared
that story with you
from what happened
in the universities.
The next fractal--
and that 25.88,
that's exactly on
the fractal cycle.
The next fractal cycle-- using
the time code calculator--
the next age was
exactly 35.7 years.
35.7 years is a very
significant year for me.
I was working in
the corporations
during the Cold War.
I was a software designer, and
I received an award for the job
that myself and my
department had accomplished
during that time,
and the invitation
to continue with
another project.
And I knew that I
would not be there
to see that project through.
That was the year I
left the corporations
and began writing full
time and exploring
the principles that you and
I are talking about today.
That's exactly when it happened.
My next fractal cycle
was the age of 45.6. .
At 45.6, the fruits of my labor
from leaving the corporations
unfolded as my first
corporate publishing offer.
It was at that time
Random House offered me
a publishing contract.
I had self-published two books.
They were successful
enough for Random House
to come and invite me to
write a third book with them.
As they say, the
rest is history.
So I'm giving you examples--
all these things I just shared,
you can see them on the
time code calculator.
When I planted that seed
of abundance and success
at the age of 16, I set into
motion a pattern of energy,
and that pattern
is a pattern that
has stayed with me on another
level-- beyond the hurt,
beyond the loss,
beyond the betrayal--
because these patterns play
out this way in our lives.
They play out again
and again and again.
Now, I want to mention something
about these personal patterns
that also applies to
the global patterns
that we talked about
earlier, because nature
doesn't turn on a dime.
Now, I had a supervisor
once, and he said,
change in the world
is kind of like change
on a big ship on the ocean.
He'd been a Navy captain
during the Vietnam War.
And he said, when
a battleship wants
to turn around and go
back the other way,
it doesn't turn on a dime.
It makes a big, long,
slow turn to begin
going back the other way.
Our cycles tend to
work this way as well.
They don't end at
midnight on a specific day
just because the
cycle says it ends.
What's really
interesting-- and again,
this applies to your personal
cycles as well as global
cycles--
is that there is a buffer--
that I mentioned in
the last episode.
What I did not mention then--
and I'd like to share with you
now--
is how to calculate that
buffer, what it's determined by.
The buffer between when
one cycle ends and the next
begins--
where that choice point lies--
it is determined by a factor of
how long the original cycle is.
And I want to give you the
number for that factor.
So the factor that is
applied to the length
of the previous
cycle is a fraction.
It is 0.0070243.
I'm going to say this again.
0.0070243.
If you apply that fraction to
the length of the cycle you've
calculated in
years, it will tell
you approximately how long
the buffer for that cycle
is, and the conditions
for the previous cycle--
as well as for the new ones--
are both happening during
that period of time.
This is your choice point.
This is when your choices
become most potent.
And once again, you
can choose at any time.
We have free will to
choose at any time.
But if you want to stack
the deck in your favor
within the rules of
nature's rhythms and cycles,
the choice point is the
place to do just that.
So the value of
everything we've just
done in this episode
for personal cycles--
and what I'm going to say
applies to the global cycles
as well--
is first to even recognize that
these cycles are playing out,
that things are not just
happening for no reason.
If there's a lot of
chaos in your life
or a lot of chaos
in the world, it's
not that your life
is coming apart
at the seams for no reason or
that the world is falling apart
for no reason.
We step back and look
at the big picture,
we're able to see that
all of the chaos that we
see up close actually falls
into patterns of beautiful order
that makes sense from
the larger scale.
So that's the first thing.
The second thing
is when we begin
to recognize the
patterns, we also
begin to see where the
patterns end, where they begin.
All of a sudden, these
are the a-ha moments.
First of all, you say, a-ha!
Wow, look at that pattern
hat has played out
in my relationships-- in my
most intimate relationships.
Look at the patterns of sabotage
where I've sabotaged myself
based upon events that happened
so long ago I don't even
remember when they were.
Or look at those patterns
of loss and betrayal.
And third, when we
recognize those patterns,
we recognize, once
again, the places where
our choices are most potent.
So the key to everything
that we're saying right now
is to recognize, number one,
that these patterns exist,
but number two, you and I are
not slaves to these patterns.
These patterns direct
general fields of energy
and when the conditions
of a seed event
may repeat in our lives.
We are free will
beings in this world,
and we have the opportunity to
make our choices at any time
when we recognize that
the patterns are actually
playing out.
So we've just covered
a lot of ground,
and I'm going to acknowledge
that, for a lot of people,
this is a very,
very different way
to think about our world,
as well as our lives.
So I want to reiterate
a couple of points
as we go into the next episode
of "The Divine Matrix."
We talk about the cycles.
These are rhythms and
patterns that are playing out.
However, they do not
dictate precisely what
happens in our lives.
They simply show us
when the conditions--
the opportunities--
for events to unfold are
appearing in our lives.
Once we recognize
these natural rhythms
and these natural
cycles, we can work
with the rhythms,
work with the cycles
to bring about positive
change in the world,
as well as positive
change in our lives.
Whether the cycles are playing
out on the smaller scale,
at a personal level,
or in a large scale--
the global level--
our lives are unfolding
within the container
of the divine matrix.
In the next episode, we'll
explore the 3,000-year-old map
of time that holds the key
to where the cycles lead
and the secret to our personal
as well as our global destiny.
Thank you for joining
me for today's program,
and be sure to tune in for our
next all-new episode of "The
Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."